slides.md, before:

---
# Slidev front matter
title: "Unifying Travels & Viagens — Architecture & Roadmap"
subtitle: "40′ presentation + 20′ Q&A"
author: "Ernesto Anaya Ruiz"
theme: default
fonts:
  sans: Inter
  mono: Fira Code
highlighter: shiki
lineNumbers: false
drawings:
  persist: true
transition: slide-left
exportFilename: "Thoughtworks_Case_Presentation"
---

# Unifying Travels & Viagens
**Architecture & Roadmap**  
**Presenter:** Ernesto Anaya Ruiz

<small>Thoughtworks | Preparation for Case Study</small>

---
layout: section
---

# Executive Summary

---

## Problem & Vision
**Problem**  
- Two customer-facing apps (Travels: Struts/JSP on Tomcat; Viagens: React SPA + BFF)  
- Multiple backends across AWS, GCP, Azure  
- Low test coverage, batch releases, coordination overhead

**Vision**  
- A **single, resilient, fast web experience** powered by a **frontend platform** (React/Next.js shell) that composes **domain micro-frontends** and brokers requests via **domain BFFs** across existing backends.

---

## Approach & Outcomes
**Approach (high level)**  
- **Micro-frontends (MFE) with a shell** + **domain BFFs** + **API gateway**  
- **Feature flags**, **contract testing**, **progressive delivery**  
- **Strangler Fig** to retire Struts/JSP gradually

**Outcomes**  
- Faster delivery, reduced coupling, safer releases  
- Improved UX & Core Web Vitals

---
layout: section
---

# Target Architecture

---

## High-Level Diagram <span style="font-size: 0.5em;"><a href="/architecture.png" target="_blank">📊 View detailed architecture diagram</a></span>
```text
[Unified Web Platform Architecture]
[Users] ──> [CDN/Edge + WAF] ──> [Unified Web App Shell (Next.js SSR/ISR)]
                                    │
                                    ├─> [MFE: Search & Discovery]
                                    ├─> [MFE: Booking]
                                    ├─> [MFE: Registration]
                                    └─> [MFE: Account/Payments/...]
                                    
MFE ──> Domain BFF ──> API Gateway ──> { Travels Backend (AWS) }
                   └──> API Gateway ──> { Viagens Backend (GCP) }
                                    └──> { Azure services | 3rd parties }
```

**Why this approach?**  
- Keeps heterogeneous backends intact; **no backend unification required**  
- **Domain BFFs as aggregation layer**: consolidate data from 2 companies (eg.merge destination lists)
- **Response orchestration**: BFFs handle complex scenarios (merging search results, normalizing data)
- SSR/ISR via **Next.js** → better **SEO/Core Web Vitals** vs SPA-only  
- **API Gateway**: routing, rate limiting, authz, cross-cloud abstraction

---

## Key Technology Choices
<br />

- **Web shell:** React + Next.js (SSR/ISR) with **Module Federation** for MFEs
- **BFFs (Backend for Frontend):**
  - Node/TypeScript for response aggregation and data transformation
  - **Key responsibilities:** Merge data from Travels + Viagens, normalize formats, handle pagination
  - Example: Search BFF calls both backends, merges destinations, deduplicates, sorts by relevance
- **Contracts:** REST/JSON or GraphQL; **consumer-driven contracts** (Pact) MFE↔BFF & BFF↔Backend
- **Edge/CDN:** Cloudflare/Akamai/Fastly for assets, image optimization, edge auth
- **Observability:** OpenTelemetry → centralized APM/logs; dashboards & **SLOs**
- **Analytics & Consent:** Unified event schema + privacy/consent management
- **Security:** WAF, CSP/Trusted Types, secret mgmt, RASP (optional)

---
layout: section
---

# Migration Roadmap

---

## Roadmap Without Revenue Loss

**Phase 0 — Discovery & Planning**  
- Inventory frontends/backends, auth, analytics, SEO, SLAs  
- Establish **ADRs** and tech radar
- Baseline current metrics (conversion, performance, revenue)

**Phase 1 — Foundations**  
- Stand up **Web Shell + first MFE skeleton**  
- Platform toolchain (CI/CD, flags, telemetry, design system)  
- Create **API Gateway** + **Booking BFF** (pilot)  
- Implement SSO, edge caching, base observability

**Phase 2 — Complete Migration Preparation**  
- Build **all MFEs** (Search, Booking, Registration, Payments, Account)  
- **Feature parity validation**: comprehensive testing vs legacy functionality  
- Performance benchmarking to ensure **≥100% baseline performance**
- **Big bang preparation**: deployment scripts, rollback procedures

**Phase 3 — Big Bang Migration**  
- **Complete cutover** from legacy to new platform during maintenance window  
- **Immediate monitoring**: revenue, conversion, performance dashboards  
- **Fast rollback capability** if any KPIs drop below acceptable thresholds

**Phase 4 — Stabilization & Optimization**  
- Performance tuning and optimization post-migration  
- Legacy system decommission once stability confirmed  
- Platform improvements and feature development

**Revenue Protection:** Comprehensive pre-migration testing, performance benchmarking, immediate rollback capability, intensive monitoring

---
layout: section
---

# Team Topology & Responsibilities

---

## Org Model
- **Frontend Platform (Enablement) Team**  
  Paved-road: shell, design system, CI/CD templates, linting, accessibility, i18n, perf budgets
- **Domain Product Squads** (Booking, Registration, Search, Account, etc.)  
  Own **MFE + Domain BFF**; end-to-end delivery (UX → prod)
- **Platform/SRE**  
  Observability, SLOs, incident mgmt, capacity/cost, IaC, security baselines
- **QA as Engineering Discipline**  
  Embedded SDETs; contract testing, E2E in prod-like, accessibility, non-functional
- **Data/Analytics**  
  Event schema, consent, dashboards, experimentation framework

> **Ownership:** CODEOWNERS/Backstage catalog; runbooks; on-call per domain; error budgets

---
layout: section
---

# Processes and Best Practices

---

## Engineering Excellence & Delivery
**Development Practices**
- **Trunk-based development** with short-lived feature branches
- **CI/CD per MFE/BFF** with automated quality gates
- **Consumer-driven contract testing** (Pact) between all boundaries
- **Test pyramid:** Unit (70%) → Integration (20%) → E2E (10%)
- **Ephemeral preview environments** per PR; visual regression + accessibility checks
- **Static analysis & coverage gates** enforced in CI pipeline

**Quality & Security**
- **Shift-left testing:** PR previews, visual regression, accessibility
- **Security:** SAST/DAST/Dependency scanning, secrets mgmt, threat modeling
- **Performance budgets** enforced in CI (bundle size, Core Web Vitals)
- **Code quality gates:** Coverage >80%, no critical vulnerabilities

**Delivery & Operations**
- **Progressive delivery:** Feature flags, canary releases, A/B testing
- **Infrastructure as Code**; **GitOps** for environment promotion
- **Observability-first:** OpenTelemetry, distributed tracing, SLOs
- **Incident management:** Runbooks, on-call rotation, blameless postmortems

---
layout: section
---

# KPIs for Team Performance

---

## Team Performance & Value Delivery Metrics

**DORA Metrics (Industry Standard)**
- **Lead Time for Changes:** < 1 day for MFE changes
- **Deployment Frequency:** Multiple deploys per day per team
- **Change Failure Rate:** < 15% requiring hotfix/rollback
- **Mean Time to Recovery:** < 1 hour for critical issues

**Engineering Efficiency**
- **Cycle Time:** Idea → Production < 1 week for small features
- **PR Turnaround:** Review & merge within 4 hours
- **Build Time:** < 10 minutes for MFE, < 15 minutes for BFF
- **Test Coverage:** > 80% with < 2% flaky tests

**Team Health**
- **Cognitive Load:** Teams own max 2 MFEs + 1 BFF
- **On-call Burden:** < 2 incidents/week requiring manual intervention
- **Technical Debt Ratio:** 20% sprint capacity for improvements

---

## KPIs for Solution Success

**Business Impact**
- **Revenue per Session:** Maintain or improve vs. baseline
- **Conversion Rate:** Search → Booking improvement ≥ 5%
- **Cart Abandonment:** Reduce by 10% within 6 months
- **Customer Lifetime Value:** Increase through unified experience

**Technical Excellence**
- **Core Web Vitals:** LCP < 2.5s, INP < 200ms, CLS < 0.1 (p75)
- **Availability:** 99.95% uptime for critical user journeys
- **API Performance:** p95 latency < 200ms, p99 < 500ms
- **Error Rate:** < 0.1% for user-facing features

**Platform Adoption**
- **Migration Progress:** 100% traffic on new platform within 12 months
- **Legacy Decommission:** -25% legacy code per quarter
- **Cost Efficiency:** 20% reduction in infrastructure cost per transaction

---
layout: center
class: text-center
---

# Thank you
**Ernesto Anaya Ruiz**  
_Questions welcome — looking forward to the discussion._

---
layout: section
---

# Q&A Bank (Samples)

---

## Common Questions & Talking Points
- **Why micro-frontends vs one SPA?** Org alignment, independent deploys, safer migration
- **Why Next.js SSR/ISR?** Better SEO & Core Web Vitals; edge cacheability; partial static regen
- **Avoiding a distributed monolith?** Clear contracts, BFF boundaries, consumer tests, ownership, observability
- **Backend unification later?** Design is backend-agnostic; unify behind BFFs/gateway when timing is right
- **Keeping quality high?** Shift-left: unit/component/contract; few critical E2Es; PR previews; a11y checks
- **Release strategy?** Progressive delivery (flags/canary), error budgets, auto-rollback
- **Data privacy?** Consent mgmt; minimize PII; policy-as-code; auditing

Commit message:

Revise slides.md to update section titles and enhance content clarity. Change "Executive Summary" to "Summary" and add "Additional Reference Materials" section with detailed insights on observability, monitoring, SLOs, and performance metrics.

slides.md, after:

---
# Slidev front matter
title: "Unifying Travels & Viagens — Architecture & Roadmap"
subtitle: "40′ presentation + 20′ Q&A"
author: "Ernesto Anaya Ruiz"
theme: default
fonts:
  sans: Inter
  mono: Fira Code
highlighter: shiki
lineNumbers: false
drawings:
  persist: true
transition: slide-left
exportFilename: "Thoughtworks_Case_Presentation"
---

# Unifying Travels & Viagens
**Architecture & Roadmap**  
**Presenter:** Ernesto Anaya Ruiz

<small>Thoughtworks | Preparation for Case Study</small>

---
layout: section
---

# Summary

---

## Problem & Vision
**Problem**  
- Two customer-facing apps (Travels: Struts/JSP on Tomcat; Viagens: React SPA + BFF)  
- Multiple backends across AWS, GCP, Azure  
- Low test coverage, batch releases, coordination overhead

**Vision**  
- A **single, resilient, fast web experience** powered by a **frontend platform** (React/Next.js shell) that composes **domain micro-frontends** and brokers requests via **domain BFFs** across existing backends.

---

## Approach & Outcomes
**Approach (high level)**  
- **Micro-frontends (MFE) with a shell** + **domain BFFs** + **API gateway**  
- **Feature flags**, **contract testing**, **progressive delivery**  
- **Strangler Fig** to retire Struts/JSP gradually

**Outcomes**  
- Faster delivery, reduced coupling, safer releases  
- Improved UX & Core Web Vitals

---
layout: section
---

# Target Architecture

---

## High-Level Diagram <span style="font-size: 0.5em;"><a href="/architecture.png" target="_blank">📊 View detailed architecture diagram</a></span>
```text
[Unified Web Platform Architecture]
[Users] ──> [CDN/Edge + WAF] ──> [Unified Web App Shell (Next.js SSR/ISR)]
                                    │
                                    ├─> [MFE: Search & Discovery]
                                    ├─> [MFE: Booking]
                                    ├─> [MFE: Registration]
                                    └─> [MFE: Account/Payments/...]
                                    
MFE ──> Domain BFF ──> API Gateway ──> { Travels Backend (AWS) }
                   └──> API Gateway ──> { Viagens Backend (GCP) }
                                    └──> { Azure services | 3rd parties }
```

**Why this approach?**  
- Keeps heterogeneous backends intact; **no backend unification required**  
- **Domain BFFs as aggregation layer**: consolidate data from 2 companies (eg.merge destination lists)
- **Response orchestration**: BFFs handle complex scenarios (merging search results, normalizing data)
- SSR/ISR via **Next.js** → better **SEO/Core Web Vitals** vs SPA-only  
- **API Gateway**: routing, rate limiting, authz, cross-cloud abstraction

---

## Key Technology Choices
<br />

- **Web shell:** React + Next.js (SSR/ISR) with **Module Federation** for MFEs
- **BFFs (Backend for Frontend):**
  - Node/TypeScript for response aggregation and data transformation
  - **Key responsibilities:** Merge data from Travels + Viagens, normalize formats, handle pagination
  - Example: Search BFF calls both backends, merges destinations, deduplicates, sorts by relevance
- **Contracts:** REST/JSON or GraphQL; **consumer-driven contracts** (Pact) MFE↔BFF & BFF↔Backend
- **Edge/CDN:** Cloudflare/Akamai/Fastly for assets, image optimization, edge auth
- **Analytics & Consent:** Unified event schema + privacy/consent management
- **Security:** WAF, CSP/Trusted Types, secret mgmt, RASP (optional)

---
layout: section
---

# Migration Roadmap

---

## Roadmap Without Revenue Loss

**Phase 0 — Discovery & Planning**  
- Inventory frontends/backends, auth, analytics, SEO, SLAs  
- Establish **ADRs** and tech radar
- Baseline current metrics (conversion, performance, revenue)

**Phase 1 — Foundations**  
- Stand up **Web Shell + first MFE skeleton**  
- Platform toolchain (CI/CD, flags, telemetry, design system)  
- Create **API Gateway** + **Booking BFF** (pilot)  
- Implement SSO, edge caching, base observability

**Phase 2 — Complete Migration Preparation**  
- Build **all MFEs** (Search, Booking, Registration, Payments, Account)  
- **Feature parity validation**: comprehensive testing vs legacy functionality  
- Performance benchmarking to ensure **≥100% baseline performance**
- **Big bang preparation**: deployment scripts, rollback procedures

**Phase 3 — Big Bang Migration**  
- **Complete cutover** from legacy to new platform during maintenance window  
- **Immediate monitoring**: revenue, conversion, performance dashboards  
- **Fast rollback capability** if any KPIs drop below acceptable thresholds

**Phase 4 — Stabilization & Optimization**  
- Performance tuning and optimization post-migration  
- Legacy system decommission once stability confirmed  
- Platform improvements and feature development

**Revenue Protection:** Comprehensive pre-migration testing, performance benchmarking, immediate rollback capability, intensive monitoring

---
layout: section
---

# Team Topology & Responsibilities

---

## Org Model
- **Frontend Platform (Enablement) Team**  
  Paved-road: shell, design system, CI/CD templates, linting, accessibility, i18n, perf budgets
- **Domain Product Squads** (Booking, Registration, Search, Account, etc.)  
  Own **MFE + Domain BFF**; end-to-end delivery (UX → prod)
- **Platform/SRE**  
  Incident mgmt, capacity/cost, IaC, security baselines
- **QA as Engineering Discipline**  
  Embedded SDETs; contract testing, E2E in prod-like, accessibility, non-functional
- **Data/Analytics**  
  Event schema, consent, dashboards, experimentation framework

> **Ownership:** CODEOWNERS/Backstage catalog; runbooks; on-call per domain; error budgets

---
layout: section
---

# Processes and Best Practices

---

## Engineering Excellence & Delivery
**Development Practices**
- **Trunk-based development** with short-lived feature branches
- **CI/CD per MFE/BFF** with automated quality gates
- **Consumer-driven contract testing** (Pact) between all boundaries
- **Test pyramid:** Unit (70%) → Integration (20%) → E2E (10%)
- **Ephemeral preview environments** per PR; visual regression + accessibility checks
- **Static analysis & coverage gates** enforced in CI pipeline

**Quality & Security**
- **Shift-left testing:** PR previews, visual regression, accessibility
- **Security:** SAST/DAST/Dependency scanning, secrets mgmt, threat modeling
- **Performance budgets** enforced in CI (bundle size, Core Web Vitals)
- **Code quality gates:** Coverage >80%, no critical vulnerabilities

**Delivery & Operations**
- **Progressive delivery:** Feature flags, canary releases, A/B testing
- **Infrastructure as Code**; **GitOps** for environment promotion
- **Incident management:** Runbooks, on-call rotation, blameless postmortems

---
layout: section
---

# KPIs for Team Performance

---

## Team Performance & Value Delivery Metrics

**DORA Metrics (Industry Standard)**
- **Lead Time for Changes:** < 1 day for MFE changes
- **Deployment Frequency:** Multiple deploys per day per team
- **Change Failure Rate:** < 15% requiring hotfix/rollback
- **Mean Time to Recovery:** < 1 hour for critical issues

**Engineering Efficiency**
- **Cycle Time:** Idea → Production < 1 week for small features
- **PR Turnaround:** Review & merge within 4 hours
- **Build Time:** < 10 minutes for MFE, < 15 minutes for BFF
- **Test Coverage:** > 80% with < 2% flaky tests

**Team Health**
- **Cognitive Load:** Teams own max 2 MFEs + 1 BFF
- **On-call Burden:** < 2 incidents/week requiring manual intervention
- **Technical Debt Ratio:** 20% sprint capacity for improvements

---

## KPIs for Solution Success

**Business Impact**
- **Revenue per Session:** Maintain or improve vs. baseline
- **Conversion Rate:** Search → Booking improvement ≥ 5%
- **Cart Abandonment:** Reduce by 10% within 6 months
- **Customer Lifetime Value:** Increase through unified experience

**Technical Excellence**
- **Core Web Vitals:** LCP < 2.5s, INP < 200ms, CLS < 0.1 (p75)
- **Availability:** 99.95% uptime for critical user journeys
- **API Performance:** p95 latency < 200ms, p99 < 500ms
- **Error Rate:** < 0.1% for user-facing features

**Platform Adoption**
- **Migration Progress:** 100% traffic on new platform within 12 months
- **Legacy Decommission:** -25% legacy code per quarter
- **Cost Efficiency:** 20% reduction in infrastructure cost per transaction

---
layout: center
class: text-center
---

# Thank you
**Ernesto Anaya Ruiz**  
_Questions welcome — looking forward to the discussion._

---
layout: section
---

# Additional Reference Materials
_For Q&A and deeper discussion_

---

## Observability & Monitoring

**Distributed Tracing & APM**
- **OpenTelemetry** → centralized APM/logs across all MFEs and BFFs
- **Distributed tracing** to track requests across micro-frontends and backends
- **Performance monitoring** for Core Web Vitals and API response times

**SLOs & Error Budgets**
- **Service Level Objectives (SLOs)** for availability, latency, and error rates
- **Error budgets** to balance feature velocity with reliability
- **Automated alerting** based on SLO violations

**Dashboards & Insights**
- **Real-time dashboards** for business metrics (conversion, revenue)
- **Technical dashboards** for system health and performance
- **Incident management** with runbooks and on-call rotation


---

## Common Questions & Talking Points
- **Why micro-frontends vs one SPA?** Org alignment, independent deploys, safer migration
- **Why Next.js SSR/ISR?** Better SEO & Core Web Vitals; edge cacheability; partial static regen
- **Avoiding a distributed monolith?** Clear contracts, BFF boundaries, consumer tests, ownership, observability
- **Backend unification later?** Design is backend-agnostic; unify behind BFFs/gateway when timing is right
- **Keeping quality high?** Shift-left: unit/component/contract; few critical E2Es; PR previews; a11y checks
- **Release strategy?** Progressive delivery (flags/canary), error budgets, auto-rollback
- **Data privacy?** Consent mgmt; minimize PII; policy-as-code; auditing
